So we added one provider, our products provider, which we use in the products grid, in the end we
use it there because we're setting up a subscription and that subscription where that listener here
with provider of works, because we're providing our products object, which manages our list of products
here with changed notifier provider.
Now I want to make sure that we can mark products as favorites.
Now, if we have a look at the product model, which is not yet usable by a provider because we're not
implementing with change notifier, which which means we couldn't trigger our listeners from inside
it.
This model has the favorite bullet here and it's also not a final boolean.
So we could change that.
Now, I think it would be pretty neat if the products we had here in our provider's package, which
do use this product model, could use the product model such that if we changed favorite status of a
product, we automatically notify all places in the app that require a single product and are interested.
You always have to specify that you are interested with the help of provider of so that these widgets
that depend on a single product and are interested are rebuilt whenever that single product changes,
which in our case here means whenever the is favorite status changes, because that's the only thing
which can change.
Now, therefore, I'll move product here over into providers, alternatively, we could now both rename
two models if we want to choose or rename that folder to models, but I'll simply move the product out,
fall over into providers and add with change notifier here as well, which is available also thanks
to the foundation dard import so you can use either the foundation dard import or the material import.
Now here in the products Dardanelle fall, I'm referring to that product.
So to that single product DARD Fall and it's now in the same folder.
So do you import pop should change to dot product darte with that.
I'm still creating products here, but these products now actually can notify listeners when they changed.
Now what would be a place where I'm interested in a changing product?
Now, you might think that would be the product detail page, but that's actually not the case there.
I load a single product based on the ID, which I got, and thereafter I don't really care whether that
changes or not.
I'm I'm not displaying the favorite status on this screen and I also can't change it from on this screen.
Well, right now it is screen is pretty empty, to be honest, will add more, but will not add anything
that would allow us to change to favorite status on the screen.
So the product detail screen here is not really a place where I want to reactively listen to changes
in a single product.
The product item, dark file is a different file.
They are the product item widget, which is that great tool we're creating there.
I do have this button which represents the favorite status of a product here and I actually want to
switch that I can based on whatever this product already is, a favorite or not.
So therefore here, of course, I need product data and I need specific data about whether this product
now is a favorite or not.
So I'm interested in hearing about changes in that product.
What does this mean for us?
It means that here I want to set up a listener to a single product and that's not important to a single
product, not to all products, but to my single product here in that product class.
We also need a way of manipulating this boolean here in a way that also allows us to call notify listeners.
And of course, what else is missing?
We have a listener.
We have a class.
We need to set up a provider.
What we're doing in mind out here for products.
We also need to do that for all our single products.
Now, let's start by setting up provider in the products grid widget and listening to all my products,
and then for every product we have, we're creating a product item here in the end tile in our grid.
So in the end, it's here where I need to provide my product object based on the product class now in
the main file.
We're doing that here right at the top so that the entire app can, in the end, listen to changes in
products because we need products in different places.
Now, my single product here is actually really only needed in every product item list.
So therefore, here, where I get all my products, I want to set up a new provider here above my product
item so that inside of the product item, we can then listen to changes in that product.
And since this runs, this builder here runs for every product in our products list.
That's perfect because then we can set up different providers for our different product objects, because
for products we really only have one object for the entire app to find here in Mainard for a single
product.
So for the individual product items, that's a bit different.
We have multiple products there, multiple product items, so we can set up a single provider.
We need multiple providers, one for each product.
Now, we're not setting up the provider here inside of the products class because dad won't really work.
Instead, we have to do the Darwiche, which a tree.
But that's no problem because here we have access to all our products, to the product items stored
in the products class.
And therefore here we can set up a new change notifier provider, just as we did in the main article.
This is what I'm now returning in my item builder.
This takes a child and the child still is the product item here in the end, so we can still keep that
code.
But now I also want to set up a builder where I build my product object.
Now, the thing, of course, here is I already have my product objects right there, built here.
Here I instantiate my product objects.
I do this inside of the products class, so I don't want to re instantiate product objects now.
I don't want to build a new product object.
But that's no problem in our builder here, where I get a new context passed in automatically, where
I simply have to return to value, which I want to provide, I can simply return.
Products.
I.
This will return a single product item as it's stored in the products class, and it will do this multiple
times because it's inside of the item builder for all the product to have.
Now, since I'm providing a single product here, that also means we could, but we don't have to receive
our product data as arguments here in product item.
Instead here, I'm not passing anything because instead of product item, we could now get rid of all
of that and it wouldn't have been a problem to receive this before.
But now, since I'm interested in some dynamic value in a single product, it makes sense to use a provider
here.
So now in here.
I can again use provider off, and for that, of course, you need to import the provider package here
in the product item Deadfall, so provider of and now of product because I'm interested in a single
product.
So let's import that provider now from the providers folder there from the product Dardanelle, not
products but product.
And it will now look for the nearest product which is provided, which simply happens here in the product
script where I'm providing a product for this product item and a new product, a different product is
provided for every different product item which is rendered so for every gret tile because we're repeating
this code for all the product.
So there's reruns for all the products we have, and hence we provide a brand new product for every
product item, which of course is exactly what we want.
We want to provide the correct product item or the correct product element for every product, item,
widget.
Now, there is actually one little problem you should be aware of when working with Nesto providers
as we're doing it here, when you're using it in a list or in the as we're doing it here, where Flutter
removes items when they leave the screen and reads them when they re-enter the screen.
In such situations, what actually happens is that the widget itself is reused by flutter and just the
data that's attached to it changes.
So Flattr recycles the same widget.
It doesn't destroy it and recreate it, which would work fine with our nested provider, but it recycles
it, which means that we are actually attaching a provider to a widget here, which content changes
over time and our provider won't pick this up.
Therefore, the more items you have in your list, as soon as you have items that are not visible all
the time, you will run into strange errors and bucks but will fix this in the next lecture.
This is a good first step.
And is this an approach you can always use if you're not using a list or a grid?
So any product item, I can now listen to that.
Past in my context, of course, which is this important communication channel and in here.
I get my product or whatever you want to name it, so I have my product variable here.
Which won't change in this build run here, hence its final, and then I can use product ID here to
forward that, I can use product image, you are all here and I can use product title down there.
If we saved at.
You see, this still renders asked before, but now we're actually using a different pattern.
The question, of course, is why are we using that pattern?
Because I now, of course, want to make sure that when we tap that favorite button, we switch to favorite
status of a single product for that.
And our product provider foul up there and the provider's folder.
Let's add a new method which doesn't return anything, which I'll name toggle favorite.
Status and you can name does whatever you want.
The idea here simply is that we invert disvalue of his favorite self.
It's currently true.
I want to set it to false.
If it's set to false, I want to set it to true.
So here al-Said is favorite equal to not is favorite, and the exclamation mark here is simply inverts
to value.
So if it is true then this here will return false and therefore the new value will be false.
If it was false, the disenrolled return true and the new value is true.
Now again, to let all listeners know we need to call notify listeners so you could kind of say that's
like set state in the provider package.
You let listening, which it's know that something changed and they should rebuild.
It's the equivalent to set state and stateful widgets, which we now don't really need here when we're
managing something with the provider package.
Though you don't have to manage everything with the provider package, but I'll come back to this later.
So we're notifying our listeners that this model changed, that we changed something in his object.
We changed the favorite status.
We can now use that favorite status and a product item for one year.
When we press this button, of course, I want to use my product.
Which I'm getting here with my Lessner.
And call toggle favorite status, because that's one thing that should always happen, and I want to
reflect the current favorite status here with the icon so we can simply check product is favorite.
And if it is true, then I want to show that favorite icon, which is that filled out hard and otherwise
I'll show favorite border, which is that hard to wear.
We got no filling.
If we now save lives and maybe do a full refresher to make sure that this really gets used, you now
see we have empty hearts everywhere.
But if a step it it gets filled out and again, then all the toggle it off.
And that's correctly reflected on my different items.
And this happens and this works thanks to the provider pattern where we are informed about changes here
in product when we tap a heart.
By the way, that's a nice use case or a nice place to show what happens if I said listen.
To falls here now for every product item that gets rendered, Margaret, we only fetched a product data,
but then we don't set up an ongoing listener.
That means that when is favourite's changes here, it will still change behind the scenes.
But notify listeners will not reach this build method in this widget because we opted out of updates,
were not listening.
So this product here will not received as updated is favorite status.
Therefore, a build will not rerun and therefore will not see the new icon.
So if we now do a full hard refresher.
You see, I can tap these icons as long as I want, nothing changes there because we're not listening
to updates, of course, here.
That's not what we want to remove that.
But it's important to understand what lesson false does.
So now, with this changed, you see now does updates again.